README.md, before:

# Data Mining the Yelp Open Dataset

## Description:

1. Are there optimal operating hours and locations for different categories of businesses?

2. What makes a review vote tagged as Useful, Funny, or Cool with respect to the review's text and star rating?

3. What are common features of 1-star (negative) and 5-star (positive) text reviews for different categories of business?

4. Are there clusters of Yelp users who more frequently give positive or negative reviews? What is common among these users?

5. How does the frequency of posting pictures vary with user rating and the type of object being photographed?

## Prior Work:

Since this dataset was released by Yelp for academic purposes, there is a plethora of prior work. Some relevant works include:

* Inferring Futrue Business Attention: [Link](https://www.yelp.com/html/pdf/YelpDatasetChallengeWinner_InferringFuture.pdf)
* Sentiment Analysis for Yelp Review Classification: [Link](https://urytrayudu1.medium.com/sentiment-analysis-for-yelp-review-classification-54b65c09ff7b)
* Identifying Social Sub-Groups Through Clustering of Yelp User Data: [Link](https://rpubs.com/saraabi/yelp_clustering)
* Text Mining and Sentiment Analysis for Yelp Reviews of A Burger Chain: [Link](https://towardsdatascience.com/text-mining-and-sentiment-analysis-for-yelp-reviews-of-a-burger-chain-6d3bcfcab17b)

## Datasets:

* **Download Link**: [Yelp Dataset](https://www.yelp.com/dataset)
 
* **Documentation**: [Yelp dataset attributes and types](https://www.yelp.com/dataset/documentation/main)
    
* **Files**:

> yelp_academic_dataset_business.json<br>
> yelp_academic_dataset_checkin.json<br>
> yelp_academic_dataset_review.json<br>
> yelp_academic_dataset_tip.json<br>
> yelp_academic_dataset_user.json
    
## Proposed work:

**Data Preprocessing:**

* **Data cleaning**:
    1. Ignore users with no text reviews (i.e. missing data points)
    2. Ignore reviews with no attached text
    3. Bin and cluster average user rating to detect users that preferentially give the highest or lowest possible rating.
    4. Verify all user data points are unique
    5. If time permits: detect and remove fake reviews and spam with machine learning techniques

* **Data reduction**: 
    1. Remove attribute columns that are not relevant to our project.
    2. 

* **Data integration**:
    1. 

* **Data transformation**:
    1. Normalize user attributes such as `compliment_cool`, `compliment_funny`, `compliment_cute` using Z-Scores or Min-Max 

**Classification:**
    1. TODO

**Clustering:**
    1. TODO

## List of tools:

* **Data analysis and statistics**

    1. Pandas ([Link](https://pandas.pydata.org/))
    2. Numpy ([Link](https://numpy.org/))

* **Data storage and integration**

    1. Sqlite ([Link](https://www.sqlite.org/))

* **Text processing and classification**

    1. Keras ([Link](https://keras.io/))
    2. Pytorch ([Link](https://pytorch.org/))

## Evaluation:
* TODO

## Team members:
* Daniel Bae
* Thomas Cochran
* Patrick Conley

Commit message:

added an idea using the friends attribute

README.md, after:

# Data Mining the Yelp Open Dataset

## Description:

1. Are there optimal operating hours and locations for different categories of businesses?

2. What makes a review vote tagged as Useful, Funny, or Cool with respect to the review's text and star rating?

3. What are common features of 1-star (negative) and 5-star (positive) text reviews for different categories of business?

4. Are there clusters of Yelp users who more frequently give positive or negative reviews? What is common among these users?

5. How does the frequency of posting pictures vary with user rating? Are there objects that are more likely to be photographed when reviewed?

6. Do users that give more negative reviews have a network of friends that are also more likely to give negative reviews?

## Prior Work:

Since this dataset was released by Yelp for academic purposes, there is a plethora of prior work. Some relevant works include:

* Inferring Futrue Business Attention: [Link](https://www.yelp.com/html/pdf/YelpDatasetChallengeWinner_InferringFuture.pdf)
* Sentiment Analysis for Yelp Review Classification: [Link](https://urytrayudu1.medium.com/sentiment-analysis-for-yelp-review-classification-54b65c09ff7b)
* Identifying Social Sub-Groups Through Clustering of Yelp User Data: [Link](https://rpubs.com/saraabi/yelp_clustering)
* Text Mining and Sentiment Analysis for Yelp Reviews of A Burger Chain: [Link](https://towardsdatascience.com/text-mining-and-sentiment-analysis-for-yelp-reviews-of-a-burger-chain-6d3bcfcab17b)

## Datasets:

* **Download Link**: [Yelp Dataset](https://www.yelp.com/dataset)
 
* **Documentation**: [Yelp dataset attributes and types](https://www.yelp.com/dataset/documentation/main)
    
* **Files**:

> yelp_academic_dataset_business.json<br>
> yelp_academic_dataset_checkin.json<br>
> yelp_academic_dataset_review.json<br>
> yelp_academic_dataset_tip.json<br>
> yelp_academic_dataset_user.json
    
## Proposed work:

**Data Preprocessing:**

* **Data cleaning**:
    1. Ignore users with no text reviews (i.e. missing data points).
    2. Ignore reviews with no attached text.
    3. Bin and cluster average user rating to detect "outlier" users that preferentially give the highest or lowest possible rating.
    4. Verify all user data points are unique.
    5. If time permits: detect and remove fake reviews and spam with machine learning techniques.

* **Data reduction**: 
    1. Remove attribute columns that are not relevant to our project using either forward selection or backward elimination.
    2. Identify and remove redundant data using correlation analysis (e.g. perhaps "useful" and "cool" vote counts are highly correlated)

* **Data integration**:
    1. 

* **Data transformation**:
    1. Normalize user attributes such as `compliment_cool`, `compliment_funny`, `compliment_cute` using Z-Scores or Min-Max 

**Classification:**
    1. TODO

**Clustering:**
    1. TODO

## List of tools:

* **Data analysis and statistics**

    1. Pandas ([Link](https://pandas.pydata.org/))
    2. Numpy ([Link](https://numpy.org/))

* **Data storage and integration**

    1. Sqlite ([Link](https://www.sqlite.org/))

* **Text processing and classification**

    1. Keras ([Link](https://keras.io/))
    2. Pytorch ([Link](https://pytorch.org/))

## Evaluation:
* TODO

## Team members:
* Daniel Bae
* Thomas Cochran
* Patrick Conley
